# The Importance of Spatio-Temporal Granularity for Modelling Philippine Dengue Incidence, using Mosquito Density and Weather Data
### 510-Group2, Seminar Case Studies Erasmus University Rotterdam

## Abstract
This study evaluates the forecasting performance of mosquito density for dengue incidence in the Philippines. Methodological as well as data-related research questions are considered. The importance of granularity in dengue incidence data is evaluated. Dengue forecasting performance is found to be much better for data sets that are spatially more granular, or temporally more granular, compared to a month-region specific dengue incidence data set. A fixed effects model is compared to a Seasonal Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average model on different data sets. Only limited evidence is found to support the extensive autoregressive components of the seasonal autoregressive model, with no significant evidence of seasonality in dengue incidence. On the provincial level in 2015 mosquito density has a significant effect on dengue incidences. Mosquito density in the highest of four quantiles is associated with a 46.2\% higher incidence of dengue relative to the lowest quantile. As reliable data on mosquito density is hardly available, the predicting performance of mosquito density is compared to that of meteorological data. Multiple weather variables are shown to have a significant effect on dengue incidence and forecasting performance is found to be equivalent to slightly improved.

## Data
For this study, we have data about the number of dengue incidences, the mosquito density and some weather variables. The weather data is collected by the Google Earth Engine (https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/datasets/catalog/). Due to privacy concerns, not all data can be shared in this GitHub. Dengue incidences on monthly level can be found here: https://www.doh.gov.ph/statistics. Mosquito density can be found here: http://dengue.pchrd.dost.gov.ph/. 
